Instructions:

Everyone is expected to read the paper assigned to them in advance of Friday's session. Don't worry if you don't understand all of your assigned paper - there will be plenty of opportunity to discuss it with the rest of your group. If you have specific questions about your paper before Friday, you're welcome to email me, or see me after Monday or Thursday's sessions. 

While you're reading:

The specific things you should keep in mind when reading the papers are as follows:

What is the technique being used in this paper? How does it work?
How does the technique relate to other techniques you know about? (You're not expected to read all 3 papers, but think about how it relates to what we've discussed in class).
What are the possible uncertainties in the experiment? How well are they understood?
What is the main result of the paper? 
Which parameters are constrained by the experiment, and which are assumed?
What (if any) improvements are suggested to better constrain their results?
Outline for Friday's session:
First you will discuss your thoughts on your paper with others that have read the same paper. You should focus on the questions above in your discussion. 

Next you will be split into new smaller groups, each with two people from each topic. In these smaller groups, you will be the expert on your paper, and will be asked to summarise the paper and your discussions. In these smaller groups you will compare the different techniques and results.  I'll provide giant post-it notes for you to write your main points on. 

Finally, we will look at points each group has come up with, and I will compile a summary of all your discussions and conclusions. 

Ground rules for the discussion session:

To ensure that everyone gets the most out of this session, there are a few ground rules that everyone should follow. If you think of anything else that should be included here you are very welcome to suggest it.

Read the paper before you arrive at the session! 
Keep all discussions respectful - i.e. no personal comments, no discriminatory language, don't talk over each other. 
Everyone's contribution should be heard and respected. The other people in your group may interpret the paper in a different way, but that's exactly why we're having this session! Science isn't done in a vacuum.
I'll be walking round to help facilitate discussions, but this session is about developing your own understanding of the different techniques and results. 
Why are we doing this?

Scientific papers often don't come to a definitive conclusion (other than "we need more data...."). The aim of this session is for you to develop your skills in interpreting scientific results, understand how they can be compared with other results, and what problems and uncertainties are related to the experiments. There is also a lot of evidence that people understand a topic better after explaining and discussing it with someone else; I've designed the session this way so you can develop a deeper understanding of the topic's we're covering. 